What is a Notification?
-> So a notification is basically a message that android displays outside of your applications UI
to provide the user with some kind of reminders in most cases.

Notifications can appear to the users in a different locations and formats like for example as an icon in the status bar:

With the android API level 21 or Android 5.0 we can programmatically set the level of details
that are visible in the notification on a secure lock screenor whether the notification will
show up on the lock screen at all.

We can also set the higher importance level for each notification so that wecan display so called
heads-up notifications that are available only from an API level 21 which is Android 5.0.

Notification Structure?
The actual layout design of a notification is determined by the Android System Templates and we can
just use some of those templates to fill in the information. Of course there is always a way to
customize the notification layout by yourself, and if you are planning to do that then you should
consider a couple of different things which i am going to talk about in the separate article about
it. But bottom line it’s always recommended to use a Standard Notification Templates when possible.

@drawble/notification_template

1. Under the number of one we can see an icon and that icon is usually called
a Small Icon.
2. Then we have a text that does represent the Application Name itself.
3. Then we have a Timestamp which is the value provided by the system. And of course we can
programmatically override that value or even hide it using a setShowWhen() function.
4. Then after that we have an image or an icon and this icon is called a Large Icon. So this
element is optional and it’s mostly used to represent a person from your contact list for example
and you shouldn’t use that large icon to show your application icon or a logo because that would
violate the user experience.
5. Next we can see the Content Title which is also an optional element.
6. Next we can see the Content Text which is an optional element.
7.And finally there is a notification button that is called an Action Button
which is an optional element as well. It’s optimal to have a maximum of
three action buttons per notification, so be sure to remember that.


Notification Channels?

Starting with an API Level of 26 or Android 8.0, all notifications must be assigned to a channel
or they will not appear.
In android developer terminology we use a word ‘channel’ while the actual users in their system
settings see a word ‘category’ or a categories. By categorizing notifications into a channels a
users can disable specific notification channel for your application instead of disabling all
your notifications, and the users can control the visual and the auditory options for each channel
all that from the android system settings.
For example you can create a notification channel for the news category of your application
notifications, and then another channel for a reward notifications, and so on…

Notification Importance?
Android uses the importance of notification to determine how much the notification should interrupt
the user. The higher the importance of a notification is, the more interrupted the notification
will be.

On an API Level 26 and higher or Android 8.0 we are specifying notification
importance within the notification channel and the users can change this importance,
in the system settings.

Also on the Android API Level 25 and below importance of each notification is determined by the
notification priority, and there are four different importance
levels: Urgent, High, Medium and Low.

With the Urgent, notification appear as a heads-up notification and they make a sound.

High importance basically means that notification will make a sound.

Medium importance means that notification will make no sound.

And the Low importance means that notification will have no sound and they will not exist or appear within the status bar.



